                                            "Nature does not know extinction; all it knows is transformation. 
                                 Everything science has taught me, and continues to teach me, strengthens my belief
                                                 in the continuity of our spiritual existence after death"
                                                                - Wernher Von Braun 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Page 3: "A screaming comes across the sky. It has happened before, but there is nothing to compare it to now"
    - Iconic opening to a novel

Page 3: "...he sits in velveteen darkness..."
    - Love the scene Pynchon is illustrating here, all to describe a man sitting on a train

Page 3: "He's afraid of the way the glass will fall-soon-it will be a specatcle: the fall of a crystal palace"
    - The Crystal Palace was a real place in London

Pages 3-4: "No, this is not a disentanglement from, but a progressive knotting into..."
    - As they move along inside this carriage, things are only looking worse outside

Page 5: "There is no way out. Lie and wait, lie still and be quiet. Screaming holds across the sky. When it comes, will it come in darkness,
or will it bring its own light? Will the light come before or after?"
    - Terrifying way to describe a rocket on its way to bring death

Page 5: "His skull feels made of metal"

Page 7: "Well, the range of these things is supposed to be over 200 miles. You can't see a vapor trail 200 miles, now, can you"
    - This rocket launch site is close.

Page 7: "Allowing himself to count only bananas, moving barelegged among the pendulous bunches, among these yellow chandeliers, this tropical
twilight..."
    - Love this beautiful imagery so much. Pynchon grips all of your senses with such creative imagery.

Page 9: "Danger's over, Banana Breakfast is saved."

Page 10: "...though it is not often Death is told so clearly to fuck off..."

Page 11: "Solitude, even among the meshes of this war, can when it wishes so take him by the blind gut and and touch, as now, possessively. 
Pirate's again some other side of a window, watching strangers eating breakfast."

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    The novel begins with an unnamed man at a train station that has been devasted from war/shelling. The area is dark and dangerous.
The man is afraid of the glass overhead falling unto him. Inside the train car, there is an assortment of characters, none of whom are speaking.
They begin to leave the station, heading deeper into the city (is this the way out?). As they trudge along, the surrounding area is even
more annihilated than where they came from. Again, the imagery Pynchon paints here is so vivid. There is reflections on what the city used to be
before it became a wasteland, and the more they travel along, the more clastrophobic it all feels, until finally they come to a screeching halt.

    They ("Evacuees") are ushered off of the train by nameless, uniformed men. They have arrived at a decrepid hotel where they are herded onto 
elevators where they are offloaded and stuffed into 'invisible rooms'. The people are hearing a voice, almost mockingly, ask them if they
really expected to be saved. They are trapped. Pynchon tells the reader that "it" (V-2 Rocket) will be coming for them. Our character is waking 
from a dream, in a room filled with decrepid people.

    His name is Captain Geoffrey "Pirate" Prentice. Above him, Teddy Bloat is on a crumbling balcony, unaware that the only thing holding him
there is a rip by his hip pocket that has gotten snagged. As Bloat is rolling around in his sleep he falls off the balcony and Pirate, 
seeing this, kicks his bed underneath him to break his fall. Bloat is hardly fazed, and goes back to sleep on the new bed. Pynchon then tells us
that Bloat is the co-tenant to the duplex they're living in. The duplex is located in central London and was built by Corydon Throsp, who is
friendly with the Rosettis. The Rosettis have a garden on top of the roof that can grow just about anything due to its rich topsoil. The topsoil
is a mix of manure from 3 prize pigs, dead leaves from decorative trees, and meals thrown up by the "sensitive epicurean". 

    On this rooftop garden, Pirate is growing bananas that he is very fond of. The residents are obsessed with the breakfasts he provides from
all the bananas. After getting up and taking a piss, Pirate throws on a robe and makes his way to the rooftop. The air outside is crisp and bitter 
as he overlooks the city from the parapet. Off on the horizon he witnesses a rocket launch (V-2). "Incoming Mail" he says to himself. He is debating 
what he should do as he sees the rocket dissapear into the atmosphere. He knows he has 5 minutes till the rocket makes contact. What should he do? 
Pick bananas is the answer. Pirate empties his mind and after hes done picking/counting bananas, he steps out of the bananery and lights a cigarette.

  Now back downstairs with his bananas, Pirate begins the routine: assembling a grand breakfast. Teddy Bloat stumbles around and ends up slipping on
a banana peel left of the floor. Him and Pirate both discuss watching the vapor trail caused by the rocket. Its been roughly 10 minutes since
Pirate saw it launch from the rooftop so they concur that they must be safe from its destruction. Although relieved that they are saved from the 
rocket, Pynchon reminds us that "There will indeed be others, each just as likely to land on top of him". A new character Osbie Feel, arises and using 
a banana to mimic self-pleasuring, sings a humorous song. Shortly after beginning, he is forcibly stopped (pummeled) by a group of men who have also
woken up. With more people awake now, they begin helping Pirate prepare breakfast. Every man in this house is rugged, dirty, and more or less a degenerate.

  The kitchen is now beginning to fill with the warm and delicious aromas of breakfast. Written on a banana dish: "C'est magnifique, mais ce
n'est pas la guerre", a frnch quote which translates to "it is magnificent, but it is not war". The phone abruptly interrupts the soft flow of breakfast
and, Bloat, answering the phone, lets Pirate know that it's "his employer". The unidentified person on the other end of the line speaks to Pirate about
the rocket launch, in code. He now knows where it landed and why there was no explosion. He is needed for work, and must leave. After hanging up, he
looks upon the group of men enjoying their breakfast, and a strong surge of solitude grips him.

  He is picked up in a dented green Lagonda by a Corporal Wayne, and driven out east. The day just seems to get colder and colder. After 


  













